# project-hurrisat
MMAE412 Spacecraft design project. Designing a small Cubesat for NASA CLSI. 

Illinois Institute of Technology is developing initital orbital satellite that tracks hurricanes and tornados in the South Eastern US region. Our device is a 6U Cubesat dubbed HurriSat. This cubesat will use a reaction wheel system for attitude control and pointing of the onboard antennas and cameras. We are developing the controller, designing the structure and sourcing hardware for both the space rated system and a ground test system that will also be used for demonstration purposes in a MMAE412 SPACECRAFT DESIGN project.

The purpose of this mission report is to provide initial concept design for a Cubesat project proposed by the NASA CSLI program. NASA’s CubeSat Launch Initiative is intended to expand U.S. interest in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM), thereby developing future scientists, engineers, and technologists [10]. This proposed Cubesat designated as “HurriSat” is a low-earth orbit (LEO) weather sat that is capable of studying and monitoring hurricanes in the U.S region. HurriSat’s mission relevance is in accordance with the first objective of NASA’s Strategic plan listed in sections 1.1 and 1.2. It’s first goal is to study the causes and effects of severe space weather events to allow for preparation in a timely manner. Furthermore, HurriSat is designed to transfer, receive, and process various atmospheric data for scientific and educational purposes. It will be utilized by almost all governmental and commercial weather organisations in the years to come.
